Transcript of Copy of Global wine war 2009 : New World VS Old

New World VS Old
Global wine war 2009 :
History of wine
Case study number 2-1 : Wine in 2009
Confrontation between two worlds
Modern against Traditional
Problems about : production, marketing, distribution, regulations...
Presentation
Wine used to be sold in bulk to merchant traders
Producers didn’t have any direct relation with their customers
New world producers 
Change this way of production
Late 18th century is the revolution of the industry
mass production, cork stoppers, pasteurization
The “new world wine”,
Argentina, Australia, Canada, Chile, New Zealand, South Africa and the United States
Greater wine stability, longevity, distribution
Old world vs New World
New world:
Ownership 
Greater size 
Attractive targets for multinational drinks companies
Packaging 
“The innovative wine in box” 
Saved shipping costs and help storage
New marketing
Recommendations
Use of untraditional flavors and techniques 
Reconsider the prices 
Improving Old World practices with new technology
Embedded winemaking traditions
Restrictive industry regulations
Complex national and European Community legislation. 
Laws and regulations to control almost every aspect of wine making 
AOC & DOC
Germany, wine classification, 65 classes of quality
Laws and regulations in the Old World
Recommendations
Simplify regulations 
More flexibility 
To keep laws and regulations for the wine
Directly link with laws and regulations
To sell a very important quantity and earn a small money on each bottle
To have a low cost of production
Fermentation and aging to occur in huge
 Computer-controlled 
Stainless steel tanks rather than in traditional oak barrels
To provide oak flavour, some added oak chips while aging their popular priced wines
French cost: 238 €
Australian cost: 137 €
Price
Recommendations
 Improving the average vineyard holding / cost will be lower
Smalls vineyards work as a cooperative / less cost and more efficient to sell their product on the domestic market and abroad.
Modernized and industrialized
United States 213 hect. / Australia 167 hect.
Very traditional
France 7.4 hect. / Italy 1.3 hect.
Accelerate the growth and improve the harvest
Australia: the irrigation / Banned in France 
Question of the quality of wine
Experts have more difficulties with new wines
The production
Many regulations 
AOC and DOC 
Difficult to produce a hybrid wine 
To maximize production 
To amplify the flavor of the grape
New generation
For all consumers ?
The innovation
Recommendations
Carefully monitor their production
Work on their image
Increase production
Offer a range of products more accessible
Sold in bulk to merchant traders
They can’t know them consumers 
Control the sells arguments 
Can’t be competitive 
Think about a sell strategy
To adapt them product to them consumers
Wine Distribution
Italy
low stocks, prices levels at the beginning of 2010 are no longer available.
France
2011 sales increased by 10.5% in value
Argentina
strong demand, should increase by nearly 25% in 2012
Demand in Italy, France and Argentina
UK, The wine market has grown faster
20% of all household spending on drinks and 28% of the alcohol market.
In 2009, the UK wine market is estimated to be worth £11.65bn, .
The Belgium slow growth
only 1.7% of the market
wine market in Belgium 3.3 billion dollar industry by the end of 2012.
UK, Belgium market
THANKS FOR YOUR ATTENTION